    It appears to be an excellent performer under symetrical high-speed
    conditions.  From 9600 on up, it works very well.  At 2400, it is very
    competitive with Zmodem. I think you have a real winner here.
                                .......Doug Haire


    BTW, kudos to you for creating such an easy protocol to add to both comm
    programs and the BBS.  It took only about 5 minutes to put it into my
    PCBoard system and Qmodem.  So far, so good!
                                .......Rod Renner


    I have been getting about 95-96% efficiency with Zmodem, but with
    HS/LINK I get about 98% with one way transfers...haven't tried 2-way
    yet.
                                .......Robert Hearn


    I've been onto telecommunications for eight years and have run a BBS for
    six..  I have never used a transfer protocol that any where measures up
    to your new protocol..  It's amazing that you could develop all the
    features that you have in only a ver 1 beta..  Keep up the good work..
    This protocol is going to be one that I will recommend over any other.
                                ........Michael Chamberlain


    It's a fine product, and I'm happy to say in my implementation of it in
    Qmodem, it's been faster than Y-Modem G, something I didn't think was
    possible.
                                ........Todd Henschell


    Glad you found the problem, though! People are starting to take to it
    real heavy. I think it's a true winner and it's been a pleasure to have
    worked with you on the few problems its had. Your attitude toward
    producing quality software is a shining example to the rest of the
    software producers.
                                .......Doug Haire


    I set it up on my BBS in 5 minutes and in my TELIX pgm in 3 minutes...
    most of that time was consumed by my "hunt and oeck" typing!
                                .......Al Lawrence
                                       Sunrise Door Software
                                       404-256-9525 HST DS 19.2


    Several boards in my area have started using HSLINK and really like it.
    So easy.  As an example, I had just uploaded it to a PC-Board and then
    entered a message to the sysop urging him to give this protocol
    consideration.  By the time I had finished with the letter, he broke
    into chat and said he had unziped it and installed it.  Wanted me to
    test it right then.  We did a bi-directional transfer without a hitch.
                                .......Gary Rambo


    I see that someone beat me in getting registration in, but literally
    "the check's in the mail" as of 15 minutes ago.  Please reserve me as
    low a number as possible.  I'm always pleased to support superb
    shareware products, such as those you've written.  As the Vice President
    of the Capital Area SysOps Association (CASA) in the Washington DC area,
    I will be mentioning your new product at our next meeting this Saturday.
    If there is anything in particular you'd like my fellow SysOps to know
    about your product, please let me know and I'll pass it along.
                                .......Rod Renner


    I was worried at first because every time I tried to d/l using HS/Link
    beta 7 (I removed my -S4096) it aborted, but it works just great with
    beta 8.  Keep up the great work!  I'm going to save you a call and u/l
    it to Salt Air now.  Thanks for writing HS/Link.
                                .......Raymond Clements
                                       The Pegasus BBS
                                       (502)684-9871 HST
                                       (502)684-9855


    MOÝPing-Pong....Don't really know about this type of effect...but if it is
      Ýusing both channels,,,why wouldn't it work. (bidirectional that is)...

    In a manner of speaking, the HST, V-series Hayes and others are
    full duplex, but they are asymetrical - one channel is at a very
    high speed and the other is simultaneous, but slow. The priority
    goes to the channel with the most data. If both are sending equal
    amounts, the high speed channel switches back and forth - a common
    term used to describe this is "ping-ponging". In a bi-directional
    transfer or a fully interactive session, where both sides are
    transmitting equal amounts of data simultaneously, one side would
    be sending at top speed and the other side would get the low speed
    back channel until a lull on the high speed end occurred,
    switching the high speed channel to the other sender.

    MOÝCorrect me if I am wrong...but I thought that the v.32 mean
      Ýfull-duplex??? (in the 9600 series)

    Yes, v.32 is full duplex - but it is also symetrical with both
    channels carrying 9600 bps simultaneously.
                                .......Ken Sukimoto


    Please don't overlook HSLINK's ability to do one-way transfers!

    Of course it's getting attention as a bi-directional protocol, but the
    great error control, and the ability to set the size of the packet size
    makes the speed comparable to Zmodem or Ymodem-g.

    HSLINK:  It's not just for bi-directionals anymore!
                                .......Gary Rambo


    HSLink 10C looks very close to a release to these untrained eyes. I sure
    do hope it will work with other BBSes, because if it does Mr Smith is
    going to get a LOT of registrations. He's gonna get some from here even
    as it stands, which for the moment is a one-way protocol. It's VERY nice
    work.
                                .......Alan Dawson


    Recently Werner Gumpert and I were discussing the growth of use on such
    a new protocol as being nothing short of phenominal <sp> as in the
    short time it has been out is now is used on 11.8% of all file
    transfers on my board, including the QWK mail transfers.  This is
    second only to Zmodem and has replaced Ymodem and all the others. Great
    program!  The BBS community owes you a big thanks for producing it.
                                .......Randy Young
